API.md, before:

# API Documentation <a name = "api"></a>

`rollup-plugin-chrome-extension` works out of the box, but sometimes you need more.

## Table of Contents

- [Exports](#exports)
  - [reloader](#exports-push-reloader)
  - [reloader](#exports-push-reloader-privacy)
- [Manifest](#manifest)
  - [permissions](#options-permissions)
- [Options](#options)
  - [dynamicImportWrapper](#options-dynamic-import-wrapper)
  - [pkg](#options-pkg)
  - [publicKey](#options-public-key)

## Exports <a name = "exports"></a>

### `chromeExtension`

| Type       | Arguments                                     |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `function` | `(options?: object) => ChromeExtensionPlugin` |

Call this function to initialize `rollup-plugin-chrome-extension`. Always put it first in the plugins array, since it converts the manifest json file to an array of input files. See [Options API](#options-api) for config details.

```javascript
// rollup.config.js

import { chromeExtension } from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [chromeExtension()],
}
```

### `pushReloader`

| Type       | Call Signature                   |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| `function` | `() => RollupPlugin | undefined` |

```javascript
import {
  chromeExtension,
  pushReloader,
} from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [
    chromeExtension(),
    // Reloaders go after the main plugin
    pushReloader(),
  ],
}
```

Returns a Rollup plugin to add an auto-reload script to Chrome Extensions. Add it to the plugins array after `chromeExtension`.

When Rollup is not in watch mode, `pushReloader` disables itself.

When active, `pushReloader` will replace the manifest description and log its presence in the background console and every content script.

This reloader uses [Firebase Cloud Messaging](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) to tell the extension to reload. [Click here for more details and privacy info.](https://github.com/bumble-org/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension/blob/master/README#reloaders.md)

### `simpleReloader` <a name = "exports-simple-reloader"></a>

| Type       | Call Signature                           |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `function` | `() => SimpleReloaderPlugin | undefined` |

**Use Case**: You don't care if the background page can sleep, you don't want to use `pushReloader` and its fancy Push Notifications, or you don't have an internet connection.

This reloader simply uses `setInterval` to fetch a local timestamp file every few seconds. When Rollup completes a new build, it changes the timestamp and the Chrome extension reloads itself.

If Rollup is not in watch mode, `simpleReloader` disables itself.

#### Usage for `simpleReloader`

```javascript
import {
  chromeExtension,
  simpleReloader,
} from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [
    chromeExtension(),
    // Reloaders go after the main plugin
    simpleReloader(),
  ],
}
```

Start Rollup in watch mode. Enjoy auto-reloading whenever Rollup makes a new build.

## Manifest API <a name = "manifest"></a>

### `[permissions]` <a name = "options-permissions"></a>

#### If a wrong permission has been detected

Sometimes a third-party module will reference a Chrome API to detect its environment, but you don't need the permission in your manifest.

```jsonc
// wrong permissions in output manifest.json
{
  "permissions": [
    "alarms", // This should not be here
    "storage"
  ]
}
```

**Solution:** Prefix unwanted permissions in the manifest with `"!"`, for example, `"!alarms"`.

```jsonc
// source manifest.json
{
  "permissions": [
    "!alarms", // This permission will be excluded
    "storage"
  ]
}
```

```jsonc
// correct permissions in output manifest.json
{
  "permissions": ["storage"]
}
```

### `[web_accessible_resources]`

If you have files that are not imported to a script, or referenced directly in the manifest or an HTML file, add them to `web_accessible_resources`.

They will be written to `output.dir` with the same folder structure as the source folder (the folder with the manifest file). Relative paths may not lead outside of the source folder.

```jsonc
{
  "web_accessible_resources": [
    "fonts/some_font.oft",
    // HTML files are parsed like any other HTML file.
    "options2.html",
    // Globs are supported too!
    "**/*.png"
  ]
}
```

## Options API <a name = "options"></a>

You can use an options object with any of the following properties. Everything is optional.

### `[dynamicImportWrapper]` <a name = "options-dynamic-import-wrapper"></a>

| Type                |
| ------------------- |
| `object` or `false` |

We use dynamic imports to support ES2015 modules and [code splitting](https://medium.com/rollup/rollup-now-has-code-splitting-and-we-need-your-help-46defd901c82) for JS files.

<!-- ARTICLE: write "modules in chrome extension" article -->

[Use modules in Chrome extension scripts](). Only disable if you know what you're doing, because code splitting won't work if `dynamicImportWrapper === false`.

#### `[dynamicImportWrapper.wakeEvents]`

| Type       |
| ---------- |
| `string[]` |

Events that wake (reactivate) an extension may be lost if that extension uses dynamic imports to load modules or asynchronously adds event listeners.

<!-- ARTICLE: write "wake events and module loading" article -->

List events that will wake your background page (for example, `'chrome.tabs.onUpdated'`, or `'chrome.runtime.onInstalled'`). The script module loader will defer them until after all the background script modules have fully loaded.

> It may be possible to statically analyze the background page code to detect which events the extension uses. Like [this issue]() if this is something that interests you!

```javascript
// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    wakeEvents: ['chrome.contextMenus.onClicked'],
  },
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    wakeEvents: [
      'chrome.runtime.onInstalled',
      'chrome.runtime.onMessage',
    ],
  },
})
```

#### `[dynamicImportWrapper.eventDelay]`
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `number` or `boolean`  |


Delay Event page wake events by `n` milliseconds after the all background page modules have finished loading. This may be useful for event listeners that are added asynchronously.

```javascript
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    eventDelay: 50,
  },
})
```

### `[verbose]`

| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `boolean`  |

Set to `false` to suppress "Detected permissions" message.

```javascript
// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  verbose: false,
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  verbose: true,
})
```

### `[pkg]` <a name = "options-pkg"></a>
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `object`  |


Only use this field if you will not run Rollup using npm scripts (for example, `$ npm run build`), since npm provides scripts with the package info as an environment variable.

The fields `name`, `description`, and `version` are used.

These values are used to derive certain values from the `package.json` for the extension manifest. A value set in the source `manifest.json` will override a value from `package.json`.

```javascript
// Example usage
const packageJson = require('./package.json')

chromeExtension({
  // Not needed if you use npm to run Rollup
  pkg: packageJson,
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  // Can be omitted if run using an npm script
})
```

### `[publicKey]` <a name = "options-public-key"></a>
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `string`  |

<!-- ARTICLE: how to get stable extension id -->

If truthy, `manifest.key` will be set to this value. Use this feature to [stabilize the extension id during development](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31422195/keep-chrome-extension-id-same-during-development).

> Note that this value is not the actual id. An extension id is derived from this value.

```javascript
const p = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'

// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  publicKey: !p && 'mypublickey',
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  publicKey: undefined,
})
```

Commit message:

Fix simple reloader (#31)
* Fix simple reloader
Tweak eslint rules

* Update docs

* Update configs

* Fix or ignore type errors

* Remove console.log

Co-authored-by: Jack Steam <teamsteamdev@gmail.com>

API.md, after:

# API Documentation <a name = "api"></a>

`rollup-plugin-chrome-extension` works out of the box, but sometimes you need more.

## Table of Contents

- [Exports](#exports)
  - [reloader](#exports-push-reloader)
  - [reloader](#exports-push-reloader-privacy)
- [Manifest](#manifest)
  - [permissions](#options-permissions)
- [Options](#options)
  - [dynamicImportWrapper](#options-dynamic-import-wrapper)
  - [pkg](#options-pkg)
  - [publicKey](#options-public-key)

## Exports <a name = "exports"></a>

### `chromeExtension`

| Type       | Arguments                                     |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `function` | `(options?: object) => ChromeExtensionPlugin` |

Call this function to initialize `rollup-plugin-chrome-extension`. Always put it first in the plugins array, since it converts the manifest json file to an array of input files. See [Options API](#options-api) for config details.

```javascript
// rollup.config.js

import { chromeExtension } from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [chromeExtension()],
}
```

### `pushReloader`

> The `pushReloader` currently does not work. Use the `simpleReloader` instead. See [this issue](https://github.com/bumble-org/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension/issues/30) for more info. 

| Type       | Call Signature                   |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| `function` | `() => RollupPlugin | undefined` |

```javascript
import {
  chromeExtension,
  pushReloader,
} from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [
    chromeExtension(),
    // Reloaders go after the main plugin
    pushReloader(),
  ],
}
```

Returns a Rollup plugin to add an auto-reload script to Chrome Extensions. Add it to the plugins array after `chromeExtension`.

When Rollup is not in watch mode, `pushReloader` disables itself.

When active, `pushReloader` will replace the manifest description and log its presence in the background console and every content script.

This reloader uses [Firebase Cloud Messaging](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) to tell the extension to reload. [Click here for more details and privacy info.](https://github.com/bumble-org/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension/blob/master/README#reloaders.md)

### `simpleReloader` <a name = "exports-simple-reloader"></a>

| Type       | Call Signature                           |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `function` | `() => SimpleReloaderPlugin | undefined` |

**Use Case**: You don't care if the background page can sleep, you don't want to use `pushReloader` and its fancy Push Notifications, or you don't have an internet connection.

This reloader simply uses `setInterval` to fetch a local timestamp file every few seconds. When Rollup completes a new build, it changes the timestamp and the Chrome extension reloads itself.

If Rollup is not in watch mode, `simpleReloader` disables itself.

#### Usage for `simpleReloader`

```javascript
import {
  chromeExtension,
  simpleReloader,
} from 'rollup-plugin-chrome-extension'

export default {
  input: 'src/manifest.json',
  output: {
    dir: 'dist',
    format: 'esm',
  },
  plugins: [
    chromeExtension(),
    // Reloaders go after the main plugin
    simpleReloader(),
  ],
}
```

Start Rollup in watch mode. Enjoy auto-reloading whenever Rollup makes a new build.

## Manifest API <a name = "manifest"></a>

### `[permissions]` <a name = "options-permissions"></a>

#### If a wrong permission has been detected

Sometimes a third-party module will reference a Chrome API to detect its environment, but you don't need the permission in your manifest.

```jsonc
// wrong permissions in output manifest.json
{
  "permissions": [
    "alarms", // This should not be here
    "storage"
  ]
}
```

**Solution:** Prefix unwanted permissions in the manifest with `"!"`, for example, `"!alarms"`.

```jsonc
// source manifest.json
{
  "permissions": [
    "!alarms", // This permission will be excluded
    "storage"
  ]
}
```

```jsonc
// correct permissions in output manifest.json
{
  "permissions": ["storage"]
}
```

### `[web_accessible_resources]`

If you have files that are not imported to a script, or referenced directly in the manifest or an HTML file, add them to `web_accessible_resources`.

They will be written to `output.dir` with the same folder structure as the source folder (the folder with the manifest file). Relative paths may not lead outside of the source folder.

```jsonc
{
  "web_accessible_resources": [
    "fonts/some_font.oft",
    // HTML files are parsed like any other HTML file.
    "options2.html",
    // Globs are supported too!
    "**/*.png"
  ]
}
```

## Options API <a name = "options"></a>

You can use an options object with any of the following properties. Everything is optional.

### `[dynamicImportWrapper]` <a name = "options-dynamic-import-wrapper"></a>

| Type                |
| ------------------- |
| `object` or `false` |

We use dynamic imports to support ES2015 modules and [code splitting](https://medium.com/rollup/rollup-now-has-code-splitting-and-we-need-your-help-46defd901c82) for JS files.

<!-- ARTICLE: write "modules in chrome extension" article -->

[Use modules in Chrome extension scripts](). Only disable if you know what you're doing, because code splitting won't work if `dynamicImportWrapper === false`.

#### `[dynamicImportWrapper.wakeEvents]`

| Type       |
| ---------- |
| `string[]` |

Events that wake (reactivate) an extension may be lost if that extension uses dynamic imports to load modules or asynchronously adds event listeners.

<!-- ARTICLE: write "wake events and module loading" article -->

List events that will wake your background page (for example, `'chrome.tabs.onUpdated'`, or `'chrome.runtime.onInstalled'`). The script module loader will defer them until after all the background script modules have fully loaded.

> It may be possible to statically analyze the background page code to detect which events the extension uses. Like [this issue]() if this is something that interests you!

```javascript
// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    wakeEvents: ['chrome.contextMenus.onClicked'],
  },
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    wakeEvents: [
      'chrome.runtime.onInstalled',
      'chrome.runtime.onMessage',
    ],
  },
})
```

#### `[dynamicImportWrapper.eventDelay]`
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `number` or `boolean`  |


Delay Event page wake events by `n` milliseconds after the all background page modules have finished loading. This may be useful for event listeners that are added asynchronously.

```javascript
chromeExtension({
  dynamicImportWrapper: {
    eventDelay: 50,
  },
})
```

### `[verbose]`

| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `boolean`  |

Set to `false` to suppress "Detected permissions" message.

```javascript
// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  verbose: false,
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  verbose: true,
})
```

### `[pkg]` <a name = "options-pkg"></a>
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `object`  |


Only use this field if you will not run Rollup using npm scripts (for example, `$ npm run build`), since npm provides scripts with the package info as an environment variable.

The fields `name`, `description`, and `version` are used.

These values are used to derive certain values from the `package.json` for the extension manifest. A value set in the source `manifest.json` will override a value from `package.json`.

```javascript
// Example usage
const packageJson = require('./package.json')

chromeExtension({
  // Not needed if you use npm to run Rollup
  pkg: packageJson,
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  // Can be omitted if run using an npm script
})
```

### `[publicKey]` <a name = "options-public-key"></a>
| Type       | 
| ---------- | 
| `string`  |

<!-- ARTICLE: how to get stable extension id -->

If truthy, `manifest.key` will be set to this value. Use this feature to [stabilize the extension id during development](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31422195/keep-chrome-extension-id-same-during-development).

> Note that this value is not the actual id. An extension id is derived from this value.

```javascript
const p = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'

// Example usage
chromeExtension({
  publicKey: !p && 'mypublickey',
})

// Default value
chromeExtension({
  publicKey: undefined,
})
```
