packages/rollup-plugin/README.md, before:

# [rollup-plugin-chrome-extension](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin)

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
![GitHub action badge](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension/actions/workflows/rollup-plugin.yml/badge.svg)
[![TypeScript Declarations Included](https://img.shields.io/badge/types-TypeScript-informational)](#typescript)

<a href="https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin" rel="noopener">
  <img width=200px height=200px src="https://imgur.com/wEXnCYK.png" alt="rollup-plugin-chrome-extension logo"></a>

The bundler configuration for a Chrome Extension can be pretty complex.

Use `manifest.json` as the input. Every file in the manifest will be bundled or
copied to the output folder.

RPCE simplifies project config and supports many of Vite's features in the
Chrome Extension environment, including HMR.

## [Documentation](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin)

We have
[v3 boilerplates](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin#chrome-extension-boilerplates)
for [React JavaScript](https://github.com/crxjs/js-react-boilerplate),
[React TypeScript](https://github.com/crxjs/ts-react-boilerplate) and
[Svelte](https://github.com/kyrelldixon/svelte-tailwind-extension-boilerplate),
as well as [instructions](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin#usage) for
setting up your own project.

See the [documentation](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin) for usage
and how to get started.

## Supporting

If these plugins have helped you ship your product faster, please consider
[sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/jacksteamdev) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We encourage pull requests! This is a
[pnpm monorepo](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), so use pnpm instead of Yarn or npm.

Commit message:

Add Maintenance Status Notifications (#975)
* Update Vite Plugin README.md

* docs: update readme

* docs(site): add banner

* chore: add status notice

* Create modern-drinks-retire.md

packages/rollup-plugin/README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CRXJS is seeking new maintainers. If no maintenance team is established by March 31, 2025, this repository will be archived. [Learn more](https://github.com/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools/discussions/974).

# [rollup-plugin-chrome-extension](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin)

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
![GitHub action badge](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension/actions/workflows/rollup-plugin.yml/badge.svg)
[![TypeScript Declarations Included](https://img.shields.io/badge/types-TypeScript-informational)](#typescript)

<a href="https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin" rel="noopener">
  <img width=200px height=200px src="https://imgur.com/wEXnCYK.png" alt="rollup-plugin-chrome-extension logo"></a>

The bundler configuration for a Chrome Extension can be pretty complex.

Use `manifest.json` as the input. Every file in the manifest will be bundled or
copied to the output folder.

RPCE simplifies project config and supports many of Vite's features in the
Chrome Extension environment, including HMR.

## [Documentation](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin)

We have
[v3 boilerplates](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin#chrome-extension-boilerplates)
for [React JavaScript](https://github.com/crxjs/js-react-boilerplate),
[React TypeScript](https://github.com/crxjs/ts-react-boilerplate) and
[Svelte](https://github.com/kyrelldixon/svelte-tailwind-extension-boilerplate),
as well as [instructions](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin#usage) for
setting up your own project.

See the [documentation](https://www.extend-chrome.dev/rollup-plugin) for usage
and how to get started.

## Supporting

If these plugins have helped you ship your product faster, please consider
[sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/jacksteamdev) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We encourage pull requests! This is a
[pnpm monorepo](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), so use pnpm instead of Yarn or npm.
