packages/vite-plugin-docs/docs/getting-started/vanilla-js/00-create-project.md, before:

---
id: create-project
title: Create a project
description:
  Get started with vanilla JavaScript in a Chrome Extension popup page.
tags:
  - Getting started
  - HTML page
  - Popup page
  - JavaScript
  - Vite config
pagination_prev: null
---

import {CreateProjectTabs} from '../\_create-project-tabs.mdx'

# Get Started with Vanilla JS

Sometimes you don't want to use a framework for your Chrome Extension, or you
want to add a framework later.

:::tip no framework?

Vite and CRXJS don't require you to choose a JS framework to get started. Vite
still provides HMR for CSS, and your JavaScript changes will trigger a full page
reload.

:::

<CreateProjectTabs projectType="vanilla JS"/>

## Create a Vite config file

Create `vite.config.js` with the code below.

```js title=vite.config.js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import { crx } from '@crxjs/vite-plugin'
import manifest from './manifest.json'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [crx({ manifest })],
})
```

Create a file named `manifest.json` next to `vite.config.js`.

```json title=manifest.json
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "CRXJS Vanilla JS Example",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "action": { "default_popup": "index.html" }
}
```

And run the dev command in the terminal.

```sh
npm run dev
```

That's it! CRXJS will do the rest. Your project directory should look like this:

![Vite-CRXJS Vanilla JavaScript Project Files](./assets/crxjs-vanilla-files.png)

Next, we'll load the extension in the browser and give the development build a
test run.

Commit message:

Update vite-plugin-docs getting-started with crxjs install step (#960)
* Update vite-plugin-docs getting-started with crxjs install step

* Create silent-cobras-jump.md

* Update packages/vite-plugin-docs/docs/getting-started/react/00-create-project.md

Co-authored-by: Jack Steam <jacksteamdev@gmail.com>

* Update packages/vite-plugin-docs/docs/getting-started/vanilla-js/00-create-project.md

Co-authored-by: Jack Steam <jacksteamdev@gmail.com>

* Update packages/vite-plugin-docs/docs/getting-started/vue/00-create-project.md

Co-authored-by: Jack Steam <jacksteamdev@gmail.com>

* Add package.json tip to getting-started docs

---------

Co-authored-by: Jack Steam <jacksteamdev@gmail.com>

packages/vite-plugin-docs/docs/getting-started/vanilla-js/00-create-project.md, after:

---
id: create-project
title: Create a project
description:
  Get started with vanilla JavaScript in a Chrome Extension popup page.
tags:
  - Getting started
  - HTML page
  - Popup page
  - JavaScript
  - Vite config
pagination_prev: null
---

import {CreateProjectTabs} from '../\_create-project-tabs.mdx'

# Get Started with Vanilla JS

Sometimes you don't want to use a framework for your Chrome Extension, or you
want to add a framework later.

:::tip no framework?

Vite and CRXJS don't require you to choose a JS framework to get started. Vite
still provides HMR for CSS, and your JavaScript changes will trigger a full page
reload.

:::

<CreateProjectTabs projectType="vanilla JS"/>

:::tip package.json

Check `package.json` to ensure that `"type": "module"` is set. If this package
key is missing, Vite might not be able to build `vite.config.js`.

:::

## Install CRXJS

```sh
npm install --save-dev @crxjs/vite-plugin@beta
```

## Create a Vite config file

Create `vite.config.js` with the code below.

```js title=vite.config.js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import { crx } from '@crxjs/vite-plugin'
import manifest from './manifest.json'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [crx({ manifest })],
})
```

Create a file named `manifest.json` next to `vite.config.js`.

```json title=manifest.json
{
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "name": "CRXJS Vanilla JS Example",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "action": { "default_popup": "index.html" }
}
```

And run the dev command in the terminal.

```sh
npm run dev
```

That's it! CRXJS will do the rest. Your project directory should look like this:

![Vite-CRXJS Vanilla JavaScript Project Files](./assets/crxjs-vanilla-files.png)

Next, we'll load the extension in the browser and give the development build a
test run.
