packages/vite-plugin/README.md, before:

# ![CRXJS](./banner-github.png)

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@crxjs/vite-plugin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@crxjs/vite-plugin)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
![GitHub action badge](https://github.com/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools/actions/workflows/vite-plugin.yml/badge.svg)

## CRXJS Vite Plugin

> Build a Chrome Extension with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev)⚡

CRXJS brings the Vite developer experience to Chrome Extensions:

- True HMR for extension pages and content scripts
- Simple config - everything is in the extension manifest
- Static asset imports with automatic web-accessible resources

## Getting Started

See the CRXJS documentation to
[get started in 90 seconds 🚀](https://crxjs.dev/vite-plugin)

## Supporting

If these plugins have helped you ship your product faster, please consider
[sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/jacksteamdev) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We encourage pull requests! This is a
[pnpm monorepo](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), so use pnpm instead of Yarn or npm.

Commit message:

Add Maintenance Status Notifications (#975)
* Update Vite Plugin README.md

* docs: update readme

* docs(site): add banner

* chore: add status notice

* Create modern-drinks-retire.md

packages/vite-plugin/README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CRXJS is seeking new maintainers. If no maintenance team is established by March 31, 2025, this repository will be archived. [Learn more](https://github.com/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools/discussions/974).

# ![CRXJS](./banner-github.png)

[![npm (scoped)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@crxjs/vite-plugin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@crxjs/vite-plugin)
[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/crxjs/rollup-plugin-chrome-extension)
![GitHub action badge](https://github.com/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools/actions/workflows/vite-plugin.yml/badge.svg)

## CRXJS Vite Plugin

> Build a Chrome Extension with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev)⚡

CRXJS brings the Vite developer experience to Chrome Extensions:

- True HMR for extension pages and content scripts
- Simple config - everything is in the extension manifest
- Static asset imports with automatic web-accessible resources

## Getting Started

See the CRXJS documentation to
[get started in 90 seconds 🚀](https://crxjs.dev/vite-plugin)

## Supporting

If these plugins have helped you ship your product faster, please consider
[sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/jacksteamdev) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We encourage pull requests! This is a
[pnpm monorepo](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), so use pnpm instead of Yarn or npm.
